---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright (c) 2004 The University of Waikato, Hamilton, New Zealand.
All rights reserved.

This code has been developed by the University of Waikato WAND
research group. For further information please see http://www.wand.net.nz/.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


This is the Windows binary release of the bsod client software. To download
the bsod source or the bsod server, see http://research.wand.net.nz/. To use
this software you must have access to a machine running the bsod server.

The bsod client is based on the BuNg 3d engine written by Sam Jansen and
Jesse Baker. See http://www.wand.net.nz/~stj2/bung/ for more information.



Using the bsod client:
----------------------------------
----------------------------------


What you see:
----------------------------------

The bsod client displays the packets that the server receives as particles
moving through the space of the visualisation. The plane on the left hand
side represents the local address space (however the server determines that)
and the plane on the right is the remote address space (everywhere else).
Each IP address corresponds to a fixed point on one of these planes, and the
packets they send travel from the location of the source address to the
location of the destination address.

Depending on information available to the server, packets can be drawn at
different speeds, some faster, others slower. This is based off the estimated
round trip time between the source and destination machines - packets sent
between those that are close together will spend less time in the network,
and so they spend less time in the visualisation.

The colours used in the display represent different types of traffic, with
the decisions on which colours to use and which traffic to single out with
unique colours being fairly arbitrary (but based on what was commonly seen
at our capture point). The colours can be changed by replacing the colour
plugin the server uses, but the default colours based around port and
protocol are:

http:		blue
https:		light blue
smtp/pop/imap:	red
ftp:		green
dns:		yellow
ssh/telnet:	grey
windows:	orange
irc:		khaki brown
ntp:		matte green
vpn:		bright green

icmp:		teal
other tcp:	purple
other udp:	brown
unknown:	pink


Configuration file:
----------------------------------

After unzipping the archive and before running the bsod executable, you
must edit the configuration file to reflect where the bsod server is being
run. The config file is written in the lua scripting language, and contains
pairs of the form <key> = <value>. All values are either reals, integers or 
double quote enclosed strings. Comments can be added with a double hyphen 
(--), and any text after that point to the end of the line will be ignored.


option:	start_location	type: {real, real, real}
start_location is a triple specifying the X, Y and Z coordinates that the
camera should initially be positioned at. Pressing the 'H' key while the
client is running will display the current location, which can be useful
for getting the coordinates of the position you would like to have the
camera start at.


option:	pitch		type: real
Specify the pitch the camera should have when at its initial position.
Pressing the 'H' key while the client is running will display the current 
pitch, which can be useful for setting the pitch you would like to have the 
camera start at.

option:	heading		type: real
Specify the heading the camera should have when at its initial position.
Pressing the 'H' key while the client is running will display the current 
heading, which can be useful for setting the heading you would like to have 
the camera start at.


option: display		type: string
Specify the renderer that should be used when drawing the bsod client.
Currently only opengl is supported and so this option should always have 
the value "opengl".


option: fullscreen	type: string
Set this to "yes" to run the bsod client in fullscreen mode, otherwise set
it to "no" to run it in a window.


option: width		type: integer
Specify the horizontal width (in pixels) that the bsod client should be
displayed at.


option: height		type: integer
Specify the vertical height (in pixels) that the bsod client should be 
displayed at.


option: bpp		type: integer
Specify the number of bits per pixel used for colour information.


option: network_host	type: string
Specify the host running the bsod server that will provide data to this 
client. Takes a string of the form "host:port". The server must be running
and connected to its data source before the client connects to the server.



Controls
----------------------------------

Pitch up/down:		    mouse up/down, up arrow/down arrow
Heading left/right:	    mouse left/right, left arrow/right arrow
Forward:		    W
Back:			    S
Strafe left:		    A
Strafe right:		    D
Cycle traffic types left:   ,
Cycle traffic types right:  .
Toggle HUD display:	    H
Toggle wireframe mode:	    R
Take screenshot:	    M
Quit:			    Q, escape


The traffic types displayed on the client can be cycled using the ',' and '.'
keys. It defaults to showing all traffic received from the server, but by 
cycling it, specific traffic types can be shown in isolation. A small label
in the bottom left corner shows what traffic is currently being shown.
Depending on how the server is configured and where it is capturing data
from, not all traffic types will show anything useful.

The HUD display can be toggled between showing the current date/time and
the debug hud, which will show the current position, pitch and heading of 
the camera, as well as frame rate and the last few lines written to the log
file.

Screenshots will be saved in the bsod client directory as 
screenshot-TIMESTAMP-COUNT.png



Customisation
----------------------------------

You can change the images displayed at either side of the visualisation area
by replacing the images in the data directory of the bsod client. The side
that represents local address space (on the left hand side with default
camera positioning) uses the file data/left.png while the world address space
(on the right by default), uses the file data/right.png. Each particle 
travelling through the display space is drawn as the image data/particle.png.
